README.md, before:

# Shared tools
Cross-platform framework agnostic functionality which can be used both on client or server.

## Security

Function `getPermissions` simplifies permission management of application.
It's convinient to define all permissions in schema object and reuse it on client and server side. Some application-specific schemas can be also implemented easily.

Arguments:
- user - Object - plain object with "roles" property which is a simple array of strings
- schema - Object - object describing permission by roles
- ...accessModifiers - String - requested access modifiers to get from user roles

Returns - permission result object containing merged access types properties of all user's roles

### Use cases
- Server side. Backend controller can check permissions of authenticated user and modify incoming data or adjust database queries depending on user's roles.

- Client side form field access management. Form fields can be hided, made disabled depending on user's roles.
Schema can be shared with backend to check permission on both sides.

- Routes. Either client or server can handle route access permission.

### The default is "deny all" policy. So, anything not permitted will be denied.

### If user has "ADMIN" role, function will return `true` for all requested access modifiers.

### Schema permission values

1. Boolean. `true` value has highest priority, thus if any role has access modifier of `true` value, in result it will be always `true`, no matter what values is in other roles.
2. Object. Plain object will be simply merged across roles.
3. Function. Values can be also functions with `user` argument. Result will be executed and merged across all roles with the same access modifier.

## Examples

### Simple permissions:

```javascript
import { getPermissions } from "shared-tools";

const schema = {
    "MANAGER": { modify: true },
    "USER": { read: true }
};

const user = { username: "user", roles: ["MANAGER", "USER"] };
const permissions = getPermissions(user, schema, "read", "modify");
// permissions === { read: true, modify: true }
```

### Object permission:

```javascript
import { getPermissions } from "shared-tools";

const schema = {
    "MANAGER": { fields: { phoneNumber: 1 } },
    "USER": { fields: { firstName: 1, lastName: 1 } }
};

const user = { username: "user", roles: ["MANAGER", "USER"] };
const permissions = getPermissions(user, schema, "fields");
// permissions === { fields: { firstName: 1, lastName: 1, phoneNumber: 1 } }
```

### Function permission:

```javascript
import { getPermissions } from "shared-tools";

const schema = {
    "MANAGER": { readFilter: { user => ({ department: user.department }) } },
    "USER": { readFilter: { user => ({ username: user.username }) } }
};

const user = {
    username: "user",
    department: "Finance",
    roles: ["MANAGER", "USER"]
};
const permissions = getPermissions(user, schema, "readFilter");
// permissions === { readFilter: [ { department: "Finance" }, { username: "user" } ] }
// Initial "USER" role allows to read only current user's entries
// But "MANAGER" role adds ability to read entries of user's department
```

## Object filter
`filterObject` utility intended to blacklist or whitelist set of properties and filter specified object accordingly.

Arguments:
- object - object to filter
- fields - projection object with full properties path as keys and 0/1 as values. It is allowed to use nested properties and array properties as well.
- initialObject - object to take values from. If property should be filtered according to projection, initial value from this object is taken. To correctly restore array element value, rows should contain unique `id` properties. This paramater is not required. If not specified, filtered properties will be removed.



## Examples

```javascript
const object = { first: "1", second: "2", third: "3" };
const result = filterObject(object, { first: 0 });
// result === { second: "2", third: "3" };
```

Commit message:

'ALL' role security processing. Remove validation. Update readme

README.md, after:

# Shared tools
Cross-platform framework agnostic functionality which can be used both on client or server.

## Security

Function `getPermissions` simplifies permission management of application.
It's convinient to define all permissions in schema object and reuse it on client and server side. Some application-specific schemas can be also implemented easily.

Arguments:
- user - Object - plain object with "roles" property which is a simple array of strings
- schema - Object - object describing permission by roles
- ...accessModifiers - String - requested access modifiers to get from user roles

Returns - permission result object containing merged access types properties of all user's roles

### Use cases
- Server side. Backend controller can check permissions of authenticated user and modify incoming data or adjust database queries depending on user's roles.

- Client side form field access management. Form fields can be hided, made disabled depending on user's roles.
Schema can be shared with backend to check permission on both sides.

- Routes. Either client or server can handle route access permission.

### The default is "deny all" policy. So, anything not permitted will be denied.

### There is predefined "ALL" role which simplifies generic permission definition. Any concrete permission will be always merged with "ALL".

### If user has "ADMIN" role, function will return `true` for all requested access modifiers.

### Schema permission values

1. Boolean. `true` value has highest priority, thus if any role has access modifier of `true` value, in result it will be always `true`, no matter what values is in other roles.
2. Object. Plain object will be simply merged across roles.
3. Function. Values can be also functions with `user` argument. Result will be executed and merged across all roles with the same access modifier.

## Examples

### Simple permissions:

```javascript
import { getPermissions } from "shared-tools";

const schema = {
    "MANAGER": { modify: true },
    "USER": { read: true }
};

const user = { username: "user", roles: ["MANAGER", "USER"] };
const permissions = getPermissions(user, schema, "read", "modify");
// permissions === { read: true, modify: true }
```

### Object permission:

```javascript
import { getPermissions } from "shared-tools";

const schema = {
    "MANAGER": { fields: { phoneNumber: 1 } },
    "USER": { fields: { firstName: 1, lastName: 1 } }
};

const user = { username: "user", roles: ["MANAGER", "USER"] };
const permissions = getPermissions(user, schema, "fields");
// permissions === { fields: { firstName: 1, lastName: 1, phoneNumber: 1 } }
```

### Function permission:

```javascript
import { getPermissions } from "shared-tools";

const schema = {
    "MANAGER": { readFilter: { user => ({ department: user.department }) } },
    "USER": { readFilter: { user => ({ username: user.username }) } }
};

const user = {
    username: "user",
    department: "Finance",
    roles: ["MANAGER", "USER"]
};
const permissions = getPermissions(user, schema, "readFilter");
// permissions === { readFilter: [ { department: "Finance" }, { username: "user" } ] }
// Initial "USER" role allows to read only current user's entries
// But "MANAGER" role adds ability to read entries of user's department
```

## Object filter
`filterObject` utility intended to blacklist or whitelist set of properties and filter specified object accordingly.

Arguments:
- object - object to filter
- fields - projection object with full properties path as keys and 0/1 as values. It is allowed to use nested properties and array properties as well.
- initialObject - object to take values from. If property should be filtered according to projection, initial value from this object is taken. To correctly restore array element value, rows should contain unique `id` properties. This paramater is not required. If not specified, filtered properties will be removed.

## Examples

```javascript
const object = { first: "1", second: "2", third: "3" };
const result = filterObject(object, { first: 0 });
// result === { second: "2", third: "3" };
```
